￼
Hiroshi, great work with the LFU work so far! (GitHub - scopedog/lfu: Lustre Find Utility)  Hopefully Jinshan will join the LFU effort rather than duplicating it.  Some comments here since I couldn't find any way to comment on your docs:

for the binary record format, previous analysis showed FlatBuffers is superior to MsgPack due to the ability to integrate with RDMA zero copy (see my previous comments on TLU-219). Another prominent contender is Cap'n Proto that Tim suggested.  It has a C implementation and could be ported to the kernel and integrate with LNet bulk RDMA transport.
for pathnames, this should be part of the Object Stream, if this is already available in the Input Scanner (e.g. namespace or Object Store traversal).  For device/OSD scanners, Lustre provides the trusted.link xattr to give the parent FID+filename for each object, and if pathnames are at all interesting to the consumer then this should be returned, since it allows userspace to generate pathnames efficiently in bulk by reconstructing directory trees incrementally and then reconnecting them to the filesystem ROOT/ or mountpoint.  If a subdirectory scan is required (e.g. for a restricted nodemap/subdirector mount) then the MDS may need to do the inode->mountpoint walk anyway to validate access, so it could return the full pathname at this point. We should question/investigate whether shipping the full pathname (up to 4KiB+ per object) is more costly than regenerating it on the client, but having the ability to provide it in the object stream allows this decision to be deferred/tuned later.
Merge Filter - I think this is generic enough that it should have both a kernel and userspace implementation.  It isn't clear whether merging multiple MDT/OST streams on the server is a net win vs. having two open streams, and has drawbacks if the target migrates to another server during the scan.  Restarting an independent target scan on another server is relatively straight forward vs. locally merged streams now depending on a remote server is very messy.
LMR inode mirrors: valid point raised.  Since LMR is only at the architecture stage, we can implement it with whatever benefits LFU.  Storing a "primary vs. replica" marker in the MDT objects is reasonable, and/or it could be determined by the MDT FID SEQ rage returned.  The consumer (or merge filter) would have to know if an MDT is offline to decide whether the replica object should be used, or the object iterator could transparently mask this flag/FID to the primary if the target is offline.  LU-17818 and linked tickets have some docs and discussion about LMR.
WBC: the inconsistency here is largely "Schrödinger's Cat", so WBC collapses (incrementally) to regular directories/files when viewed, and will be within the 5-30 seconds of normal caches by necessity (RAM size, storage bandwidth, etc.).  In many respects not different than ldiskfs scan vs. kernel dcache with unwritten inodes/data.  I don't think this is a primary roadblock, and if an "uptodate" scan is needed then WBC could be force-flushed before the scan started, but could immediately be outdated again.
Indexes/Aggregates: this is IMHO an implementation extension, but should be considered during protocol design.  How does a query decide whether using an index is faster than a scan (e.g. oldest or largest files, filtering inode scan on projids to provide a basis for subdirectory scanning, or a raw inode scan vs. namespace scan based on total inode count vs. projid for subdirectory if you consider the subdirectory as an index listing objects with specific parents or project IDs)?  How does a query even know which indexes are available?  We should be able to use an index as a starting point to drive an object scan and further filtering. 
Pre-shipping PCC-RO, TCU, ECRO scanners as LFU in 2.18: that would be desirable, and possibly achievable.  These are all userspace scanners (PCC-RO and TCU are local POSIX namespace scans, ECRO is full-filesystem initial scan + Changelog consumer) so do not depend on the kernel interfaces and network protocol.  Since they would preferably ship with the Lustre userspace tools, they do not have a **hard** requirement on the final formats, we could potentially modify them as needed.  AFAIK there is an initial TCU scanner based on lfs pfind in patch "LU-19598 utils: implement ltrash_purge tool", but it is still incomplete.  I think that scanning is only part of the work needed for the PCC/TCU tools to be production ready, they also need incremental updates and internal histogram to track oldest objects without keeping billions of objects in memory in a sorted list.
1M obj/sec: all xattrs for most files live inside the inode, so can be filtered without an extra read while maintaining the scan rate. This requirement is "soft" in the sense that some exceptions may break it (though we could say "1GiB/s/1024 B/inode / 1M inode/sec" gives us 4.8% margin). the goal holds that we should be able to process inodes at close to the device read rate (or faster if from cache).  The xattr regexp is primarily going to be on the xattr name so this is typically stored in the inode even if the value is external.  We can also generate a Changelog of STALE FLR files, which will avoid full scans once the initial/periodic scan is complete.
MDT vs. OST scan for file size: the MDT can get this from SOM xattr, while OST could estimate the file size from object size * trusted.fid::ff_layout.ol_stripe_count. However, in many cases OST scans care more about the size of the object and not the file because they are space management operations trying to reduce usage on that specific OST.
Lazy size on MDT: there are a few solutions here.  File LSOM updates to store proper size via FLR for regular stat() usage would allow non-FLR files to store a strict size in SOM to make scanning efficient. Files that are not closed for a long time could periodically write the trusted.lsom xattr (or send size+blocks to MDT) to update size.

Slow consumer: LFU_REC_GAP seems to make sense, if the fastest consumer has wrapped around the ring buffer to the slowest consumer.  Each consumer should track which object it last processed, and when if it gets LFU_REC_GAP when it rejoined it would get the current minimum available object, and have to re-scan the objects in the gap after the rest of the scan completes (or restart the scan there if it had completed)
LMA cannot identify all internal objects — /CONFIGS/mountdata and /update_log_dir/* carry compat=0 incompat=0 and leak into "visible": it would be worthwhile/useful to file a ticket and fix the code to set an LMA to mark them as internal objects.  This can be checked/set when the objects are opened/checked in the "initial LFSCK" so that the scanners handle this properly as they upgrade

